# February 2020

I'm now writing month notes so it's easy for my [GitHub
Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/issyl0) supporters to see what
their money is helping with (and also to remind myself of what I've
done). It was the only reward-like thing I could immeditately think
of. It's a new thing, so it's going to be a bit forced for the first
couple of months while I get into it! If you're one of my sponsors,
thanks so much!

## Things I did

### Attended FOSDEM and the co-located Homebrew AGM

It was great to meet some of the maintainers in person. Previously
we'd only interacted online or via video calls, so sitting together
and hacking on new features (or just doing normal day-to-day
maintenance) was very fun.  We had a shuffleboard tournament in the
hotel, which I was surprisingly good at given I had never heard of
shuffleboard before that weekend. Also I have some new favourite
Belgian beers: Lindemans cherry and Lindemans raspberry.

As I [tweeted](https://twitter.com/issyl0/status/1224795986037497861),
many thanks to Homebrew and the [Software Freedom
Conservancy](https://sfconservancy.org) for sponsoring my trip.

### First steps in reducing the diff between Linuxbrew and Homebrew

To reduce the diff between Homebrew and Linuxbrew so that we can
[eventually merge the
repos](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/issues/7028), we have to clean
up dependency declarations between the two codebases. This is where
the `uses_from_macos` DSL comes in. macOS provides software built-in
that Linux may not - we have to support many different distros and
many setups and users don't always have root access to install via
their system package managers). As a result, we had lots of
`depends_on "zlib" unless OS.mac?` lines which could be upstreamed 

This led to a large chunk of my time being spent finding all these
occurrences and upstreaming them. I didn't have any special way of
doing this - it was sadly very manual - I just went down through the
alphabet, A-Z. Luckily, they're no-op changes on macOS so don't need
to take up CI time in PRs, and can just be pushed straight to master.
Having branch protections enabled at work to prevent pushes straight
to master, this being allowed was a strange thing to get my head
around!

I got _most_ of these dependencies synced upstream, but then had to
deal with removing the duplicates in the Homebrew/linuxbrew-core
merges:

- <https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew-core/commit/6a39dfa5a1b2c379f41b2a2f55c8baae75e0d553>
- <https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew-core/commit/966cffabec8db88724bc98edbcc52ab7c6bc4594>
- <https://github.com/Homebrew/linuxbrew-core/commit/57a88e537be550cee603047bf17c06f918907a4f>

In that last commit, I learned the importance of running `brew
readall` before pushing changes to master, so that users' workflows
don't break. :scream:

## Other changes

Otherwise, I did some [formulae version
bumps](https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew-core/commit/cc7cdb60d622ea8857e091f67caa45417b104d28)
and moved some formulae to [use Python
3.8](https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew-core/commit/6991cfb58c8fa5d24bbb5cc1e663eef8128df649)
as part of our [Python
migration](https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew-core/issues/47274). We
have a Linux-only formula for `aws-vault` (it's a Cask on macOS as it
needs codesigning), so I [bumped that
too](https://github.com/Homebrew/linuxbrew-core/pull/19643).

On the Homebrew/brew side of things, I [fixed a
bug](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/commit/1ab843ba47374577216c28bb4a1c2fa67666da34)
with `brew bump-formula-pr`, and made `brew tap-new` use a [supported
CI system (GitHub
Actions)](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/commit/b3abf3d7c941dd1c3889cf1fa35414c6e90e986c)
so that tap users get a CI setup that works out of the box.

_If you enjoyed reading this and would like to financially support my work on open source, you can do so through [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/issyl0)._
